what is kubernetes
Deployment:-
A deployment ensure that a specified number of pod replicas are running at any given time. It can also be used to roll out updates to applications.

Apiversion:- The version of the kubernetes API to use.
Kind:- The type of resource deployment.
Metadata:- Data to help uniquely identify the object, Including a name string.
template:- The pod template describe the pods that will be created.
Name:- The name of the Pod.
Containers:- A list of containers to run within the pod.
Data:- A set of key-value pairs representing the configuration data.
Spec.replicas: Sets the desired number of pods 

Service:-
In kubernetes, a service acts as an abstraction for a set of pods that perform the same function. It provides a stable endpoint (IP address and port) to access a set of pods.
types :-
ClusterIP
Nodeport
Loadbalancer

Ingress:-
In kubernetes, An Ingress is a collection of rules that allow inbound connections to reach the cluster services.

Namespace:-
A namespace in kubernetes in kubernetes is a virtual cluster within a physical cluster that allows multiple groups of users to share the same cluster while isolating their resources and policies. It provides a scope for names 
and a mechanism to attach authorization and policy to a subsection of the cluster.
Key Feactures of Namespace:-
Isolation
Scope for Names
Authorization
Resource Quotas
Initial Namespaces

Pods:-
A pod is the smallest deployable unit in Kubernetes. It is a group of One or more containers running instance of an application. Pod are ephemeral by nature, meaning
that if a pod fails, kubernetes can automatically create a new replica of that pod to continue operations
Key Features of pods:-
Containers
shared context
Ephemeral
Replication
Networking
Lifecycle

Configmaps:-
Configmaps are used to store non-confidential configuration data in key-value pairs.
They decouple configuration data from container images, making it easier to manage and update configurations.
Key features of configmaps
Separated Configuration from code
Immutable
Shareable

Secrets:-
Secrets are used to store sensitive data, such as passwords, API keys, and other confidential information. They are base64 encoded and stored securely in the kubernetes
cluster.
Key Features of secrets;-
Secure storage 
Encryption
Mounted and files or environment variables

ReplicaSet:-
A replicaset ensures a specified number of identical pods are running at all times. It acts as a unit for managing pod replicas.
Key features of replicaset
Scales the number of pods

